Marian saves Jack
Marian and Lawrence are introduced as newly weds, in love. It’s very sweet. They interact briefly with other society people, and there is mention of Jack Thorne. Suddenly Lawrence is notified that the Locksley estate is burning down. He rushes to his horse. Marian does the same. He tells her not to come, but she says that Ivy is there. Lawrence commands her not to come, but she decides to go anyway, after he leaves.
When they get there, Marian slows her horse, looking horrified at the building in flames. People are running around, it’s chaos. Men attempt to douse the flames. She seems Lawrence directing people from nearby houses. Marian overhears some guards talking.
“Thank god it was only the Locksley residence.”
“Was anyone inside?”
“Of course not, it’s been abandoned for years now.”
Marian searches the crowd for Ivy, but doesn’t see her. Parts of the building have collapsed. She sees a man inside the building, a room that’s been partially burned down. She tries to get the attention of a fireman. “There’s a man inside!”
The fireman looks to where she pointed, but the man is gone. “You’re seeing things, lady, the house has been abandoned for years. If you’ll excuse me, I have a fire to put out.” And he shoves past her.
She tries to get closer. Then, around the back of the house, she sees him. He looks sullen. A burning beam is falling from the upstairs, and Marian sees it, but the man doesn’t. She rushes and tackles the man, just before the beam crashes down.
Scraped and bruised from the fall, Marian gingerly pushes herself up. Her face is close to the man she saved. He’s as surprised as she is.
He’s beautiful.
“Are you okay?” Marian asks.
“I…Yes,” he says.
They just pause and stare at each other. Then Marian hears, “Marian!”
The man gets up hurriedly, and is gone before Marian can do anything else. Lawrence bounds up to her. “Marian! I told you to stay home, what the hell are you doing here?” He drags her away from the flames.
“There was a man–he was about to be crushed! I had to–”
“Promise me, you will never do anything so reckless again. Promise me.” He looks at her hard and serious. She looks like she wants to protest, but doesn’t. “I promise.”
As they walk away from the building, Lawrence’s arm around her, Ivy runs up. “Marian!”
Marian looks incredibly relieved. “Oh, Ivy!” She flings her arms around her. Marian: “I came running when I heard about the news, since you live so close by. I hope your home is okay?”
“Yes, yes, of course. You look awful – come inside and I’ll make you some coffee, let the hubby get on with his important work.” Ivy smiles at Lawrence as she leads Marian away.
In the parlor of the Sinclair house, Ivy hands Marian a cloth to wipe her face with.
“So you saved a random person from a burning building. Gotta say, that’s a pretty heroic start for your debut in Junction City.”
“It was so strange. He was just…standing there.”
“Weird.” Marian just shrugs and sips the coffee. Marian: “How are you? Your father still trying to set you up with new suitors?”
Ivy sighs and rolls her eyes. “Oh god, don’t remind me. That man has no clue what women want, and it shows in his selections. How he managed to woo my mother is a mystery we’ll never understand.”
“They can’t all be that bad, can they?”
“They can, and they are. But hey – do you have plans tomorrow evening?”
Marian shakes her head. “No, why?”
Ivy lights up. “There’s this musician I’d like to see, I was hoping you’d come with me.”
“Oh how lovely! I’m Lawrence and I would love to–”
“Oh–actually, I was thinking it could just be…a girls night.”
“Oh. Well, I’m sure Lawrence can survive a night on his own. I would love to join you.” Marian smiles. Ivy looks relieved and happy.
“Wonderful. It’s at a place in Hightown called The Drowning Man, the show starts at nine.”
Marian puts down her coffee on the saucer with a plink. “You have to be joking.”
“Mariannnnn, it’s just one night of fun! Hightown’s not that bad. Don’t be such a scaredy-cat!”
“Lawrence said that Hightown is–”
“Respectfully, Lawrence is paid to see crime everywhere, and when you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail. Besides, are you really going let that man spoon-feed you every opinion you have about this city, or are you going to get out there are decide for yourself?”
Marian opens her mouth and closes it. “I don’t know.”
“Oh come on! You’ve been complaining for weeks that you feel awkward in high society.”
“It has been an adjustment.”
“So why not live a little? Escape the stuffy world of social politics and have some fun. Just for one night.”
Marian sighs. “It would be nice to not feel like I’m putting on a face for the whole world.”
Ivy grins at her friend, egging her on. Marian rolls her eyes. “Fine. One night. But there had better be no shenanigans.”
“Ok, but what about tomfoolery?”
“Don’t push your luck.”
“Yes, maam.”
